this episode is sponsored by rocket
leagues radical summer a nine weekend
game event celebrating all things 80s
play now through August 12th it's summer
which means it's time for new episodes
of your favorite Netflix original series
that hasn't been tragically cancelled
yet stranger things the show's mythology
is not super complicated but everything
has like 20 different names so before
you mix up a mind flayer with a
demagogue n' and really embarrass
yourself we've got two helpful look back
at the first two seasons that'll get you
all caught up we open in November of
1983 as a monster breaks loose from a
government facility near the town of
Hawkins Indiana after emerging from a
fleshie portal connecting our world to
the mysterious beyond
nearby for middle school friends play
Dungeons & Dragons even though the
technology doesn't yet exist for them to
live streaming on Twitch so what's even
the point
army of troglobites charging to the
chamber that's Dungeon Master Mike
wheeler they're hanging out at his house
his adventures are well Byers Dustin
Henderson and Lucas and Claire Mike also
has an older sister Nancy she's recently
started dating popular guy Steve
Harrington who an early season one is
just the worst
they'll be important later but not yet
on his way home from questing will sees
a mysterious figure in the road and
crashes his bike he's then chased by a
monster probably the same one that
escaped the lab when he gets home will
tries to call for help but only hears
strange feedback on the phone
eventually the monster attacks and both
it and will seemed to vanish in the
morning Will's increasingly frantic
mother Joyce tests alcoholic
disinterested Hawkins police chief
hopper with finding her boy he's missing
is what he is hoppers depressed because
he used to have a daughter but she died
Sarah my daughter right away hopper
suspects Will's dad and Joyce's
ex-husband Lonnie of kidnapping give me
his number
no hopper he has nothing to do with this
unsatisfied with this answer Joyce and
her older son Jonathan check out wills
fort in the woods which he calls Castle
buyers buy garden would have been funny
too but this was pre Game of Thrones
around this time a young girl with the
shaved head and
hospital gown shows up at the local
burger spot she has the digits 0 1 1
tattooed on her forearm and seems to
have some kind of telekinetic power
government agents claiming to be from
social services show up to acclaim er
they kill the super nice burger chef
Benny because they're really more of a
pizza freaky off the grid science lab
but the girl uses her supernatural
abilities to escape meanwhile Joyce gets
a creepy telephone call that messes with
the lights and momentarily sounds like
will and this really sets her off Lukas
Mike and Dustin go out searching for
well and find the strange girl instead
inspired by her tattoos they call her 11
or L for short she asked the boys to
keep her hidden from bad men so they
stash her in Mike's basement 11
recognizes will in a photo and also
demonstrates her abilities for her new
friends because with great power comes
great responsibility and also mild
nosebleeds during a party at Steve's
place see I told you we'd get to them
eventually Nancy's friend barb feels
left out and goes to sit by the pool
she's abducted by a creature and taken
to what appears to be another dimension
a ruined version of the real world then
she's killed by the monster because
there's no justice really like none she
was just being a good friend and keeping
Nancy from getting into trouble like she
asked her to then get Sun ceremoniously
left by the pool alone after cutting her
hand while shotgunning a beer which she
didn't want to do while her friend hooks
up with the worst guy in school and she
still hangs around to make sure she's
safe
and what thinks does she get a nun
ceremonies death and a hashtag anyway
what was I saying
oh yeah while the boys are at school
eleven makes like et and explores Mike's
house watches TV and has flashbacks to
her time being held captive at the
Hawkins lab that's where she developed
her psychic ability under the
supervision of dr. Martin Brenner who
she calls papa
hopper investigates the lab but it only
makes him more suspicious no one breaks
in here certainly not some kid joyce
places lamps and hangs christmas lights
around her house hoping to use them to
communicate with will and somehow it
works
eventually they develop a system to
speak joyce even paints the alphabet on
the wall and begins using the lights to
spell out words he tells her he's still
at home here steve discovers that wills
older brother jonathan who was out at
night looking for his brother was
creepily taking photos of his party he
gets revenge by smashing Jonathan's
camera at school the next day
but then Nancy sees that one of the
photos features her missing pal barb so
the message here is it's okay to hide
and secretly take pictures of people as
long as a monster is also there Nancy
goes back to Steve's house later to look
for barb and catches a quick glimpse of
the monster around this time chief
hopper and the police find the body of a
boy in the quarry and it looks like all
this supernatural stuff has been for
nothing the body is identified as wills
and the town mourns his death but eleven
convinces Mike that he's still alive by
communicating with him through Mike's
walkie-talkie well is that you it's Mike
did you copy joist likewise refuses to
believe that her son is dead but to be
fair she's a little on edge these days
maybe not your go-to resource for the
latest on objective reality
I know it sounds crazy I I sound crazy
the boys give 11 a makeover and take her
to school
okay well let's not get conceited they
plan to use their favorite teacher mr.
Clark's ham radio in tandem with eleven
superpowers to contact will making class
bully Troy Pia's pants is just a side
benefit they briefly do manage to make
contact with will which causes Joyce to
hear him as well at home she even sees
him trapped inside the walls then the
radio explodes typical always right when
you're getting out of the shower or you
made contact with the Dark Dimension
Nancy takes a closer look at Jonathan's
photo of barb and recognizes the monster
as the same one she saw behind Steve's
house she shows Jonathan and they decide
to join forces meanwhile Hopper runs a
little investigation of his own and
discovers that wills dead body is a fake
so he breaks into the restricted portion
of the lab there he finds the room where
11 was kept and the still open portal
between worlds but then it gets knocked
unconscious and wakes up at home which
has now been bugged at Mike's house the
boys an 11 label the other dimension the
upside down upside down
Dustin theorizes that the doorway to the
upside down gives off an electromagnetic
current that they can find using
compasses if we follow the compasses
north to the gate well let mr. Clark
take it from here
you'd have to create a massive amount of
energy more than humans are currently
capable of creating mind you to open up
some kind of tear in time and space and
then
you create a doorway oh yeah sure when
you put it like that it makes perfect
sense that's why they do it like that in
every movie about wormholes 11 who's
been hiding the truth about the upside
down from the boys out of fear messes
with their compasses but Lukas notices
and confronts her the kids start to
fight and Elle uses her powers to
separate Lucas and Mike rather violently
Lucas is fine but L gets freaked out
anyway and runs off
once on her own she shoplifts some of
her favorite snack food Eggo waffles
because it's not stranger things unless
you're fondly remembering products nancy
and jonathan go searching in the woods
for the monster and they find a wounded
deer that's dragged away by an unseen
force following the bloody trail nancy
finds a fleshy portal in the base of a
tree and briefly enters the upside down
yeah I'm sure there's a metaphor
somewhere about teenagers and the
dangers of exploring unfamiliar fleshy
portals but we have a lot of ground to
cover so let's just move on listening
for Jonathan's voice Nancy finds her way
back and they go back to Nancy's house
to recover where Steve spots them
together through the window Steve is
upset but in fairness he doesn't really
know about the real-life demons yet
across town Hopper tells Joyce about his
recent discoveries together they track
down Terry Ives whom Hopper has
discovered was a subject of freaky drug
experiments the lab conducted years
earlier this woman Terry Ives she claims
to have lost her daughter Jane she sued
Brenner she sued the government when
they find her she's in a catatonic state
and can't tell them anything according
to her sister Becky after the
mind-control study she was told that she
had a miscarriage she didn't know she
was pregnant at the time
Harper puts together that she actually
gave birth to 11 who demonstrated
special abilities and was kept at the
lab in secret all the kids go out
searching for one another only to be
chased by both bullies and dr. Brenner's
goons who were riding around undercover
and Hawkins power and light vans 11
brakes Troy the bully's arm and flips
one of Brenner's vans over exerting
herself in the process
a flashback reveals that she was the one
who initially opened the portal to the
upside down during one of dr. Brenner's
experiments so who's the real monster
after all oh wow she admits it 11 needs
an isolation tank to concentrate her
powers and find will and barbs so they
create one using a kiddie pool once in
the empty void between worlds 11 zero in
on Barb's desiccated corpse Barb's
desiccated corpse by the way also a
great name for a grindcore band she then
finds will in the upside down version of
Castle buyers hopper and Joyce break
into the lab hoping to use the portal to
go after will but they're captured at
the same time Nancy and Jonathan go
after the monster which the kids have
nicknamed the dimma Gorgon after
Dungeons and Dragons hey there kids this
is a lot to process
Brenner says he needs Joyce and hoppers
help to defeat the monster he sends them
into the upside down wearing special
suits to protect them from the toxic
atmosphere Brenner assumes the monster
will just kill them solving his little
police chief and hysterical mother
problem boy it's not gonna happen
but instead they successfully locate
upside-down Castle buyers but will is
nowhere to be found and the search
continues Steve shows up in the buyers
house and finds Nancy and Jonathan
plotting to kill the dimma Gorgon oh and
he's bruised because he and Jonathan got
into a fight and there was some graffiti
and honestly none of that matters at all
right now he helps them catch the
creature in a bear trap and light it on
fire but when the fire goes out the
dimma Gorgon is gone hiding out at the
school gives Mike and 11 more of a
chance to connect he invites you to stay
with his family when all the demon
slaying is over and they share their
first kiss
uh-huh
Brenner's men find them but Elle uses
her powers to fight back draining her I
don't know a level meter or whatever
just when all hope seems lost the blood
from all the murdered folks attracts the
demagogue and it attacks Brenner killing
him 11 uses the last of her power to
make it disappear and vanishes herself
in the process back in the upside-down
Joyce and hopper find will who has vines
and tendrils growing inside of him they
pull out the gunk and perform CPR to
save his life a month later mike has
kept his basement setup for 11:00 and
hope she'll return someday Nancy gives
Jonathan a new camera for Christmas but
stays with Steve turns out she makes all
romantic decisions based solely on
monster fighting ability hopper leaves
Eggo waffles in the forest for 11:00 but
she doesn't even have a toaster in the
woods hop this is a bad gift and in the
final sequence will goes to the bathroom
and coughs up a black slug he wisely
decides not to tell anyone okay
probably fine I wouldn't sweat it season
two picks up in October 1984 a little
less than one year after the vomiting
slug incident of course a new season
means new characters most notably
there's the boys new classmate the
beguiling max Mayfield they hit it off
right away max has a not very nice older
stepbrother Billy Hargrove you're a
piece of [ __ ] but we're family now
whether we like it or not meaning I'm
stuck looking out for you he's a big hit
with the ladies
and honestly also the guys
Plus Joyce has a new boyfriend longtime
Hawkins resident and local radioshack
manager Bob Newby you gotta find the RFP
one you with coaxial cable so you can
connect the video engine Wow we also
meet a private investigator and former
journalist named Marie Baumann who has
been hired by Barb's parents to look
into her disappearance he's heard wild
stories about 11:00 and suspects some
kind of communist conspiracy hey
remember the 80s this girl she's some
kind of a Russian weapon right hopper
gets a call from a local pumpkin patch
where the crops have all mysteriously
rotted before long more local farms are
infected and you've got to wonder if
this is gonna pay off later meanwhile
Nancy and Steve are closer than ever
but she's remained close friends with
Jonathan after their season one
experiences Nancy feeling guilty wants
to tell Barb's parents everything about
what happened we're going to find out
barb
but Steve tells her not to fearing the
government coming back for them they put
us in jail okay or worst he could
destroy her oh and hopper hasn't told
anyone but 11 is alive back in town and
being kept hidden and safe in a remote
cabin after defeating the demo gorgon 11
was able to escape the upside-down but
realize the police and government agents
on the right side up we're still on her
trail oh you don't have your own remote
cabin weirdo dinner first then dessert
she's antsy to go see your friends
particularly Mike but hopper says it's
not safe know the rules while hanging at
the arcade will has a vision of a huge
storm on the horizon and then later he
sees a massive spider-like creature
approaching town so he's definitely
still connected to the upside-down
somehow a concerned hopper will and
Joyce visit Hawkins lab and meet dr.
Brenner's replacement dr. Sam Owens
what's your favorite candy desert island
candy if you had to pick one yeah okay
he doesn't seem at all like a
manipulative conspirator trying to win
you over with false kindness I'm on your
side having said that it does appear
that Owens and his team are trying to
contain the portal to the upside down
rather than experiment with it like team
Oh Dean was doing
will tells dr. Owens that during his
vision at the arcade he sensed a
presence that wanted to kill everyone
but him the kids go to school on
Halloween justice ghostbusters and it
goes over great so well in fact that
Billy tries to run over Mike Lucas and
Dustin was his car later they all go out
trick-or-treating and even convinced max
to come along nearby Nancy gets drunk at
a Halloween party and tells off Steve
you don't love me
ultimately it's Jonathan who brings her
home and there's definitely something
there between them but you know what
they say once you go Steve it's hard to
leave nailed it as an eventful October
thirty-first draws to a close
Dustin finds a creature in the garbage
which he names d'Artagnan or dart for
short because it likes Three Musketeers
bars and because all thirteen year olds
love literary references the following
day eleven leaves the cabin and goes
looking for Mike at school the game
concludes that dart is from the upside
down and also that he's gross which is
unfortunate because almost right away he
grows extra legs and escapes
during the search 11 shows up at school
sees Mike with max assumes they're
together and gets jealous ah to be young
psionic and in love a bit later will
finds dart in the bathroom but the
encounter triggers another flash to the
upside down where the huge spider like
monster chases the boy and seemingly
possesses him Joyce and Will's friends
find him mid episode in a field near the
school okay that totally freaked me out
once he's back at home will tells his
mother more about the monster he also
starts acting kind of strange know what
he likes it cold will speak out
continues so Joyce calls in the big guns
will draws them a series of crazy
intersecting lines which Hopper connects
to the dead pumpkins point then Bob goes
one step further it's a map of Hawkins
later while cleaning up the cabin eleven
finds hoppers file and Terry Ives
reaching out psychically she realizes
Terry is her mother and here's her real
name for the first time Nancy and
Jonathan go to tell Barb's parents about
what they know but her confronted by
government agents and brought to dr.
Owens Pleasanton here is it he shows
them the open portal and says it's his
job to ensure the secrecy of what
happened then Owens lets them go which
was maybe a mistake because wouldn't you
know they recorded everything yeah
that's what I said
speaking of unfortunate mistakes a much
larger dart eats Dustin's cat monsters
they grow up so fast while inspecting
the already expansive supernatural
tunnels underneath Hawkins hopper is
sprayed by demon spores and loses
consciousness he comes to it begins
vomiting black sludge much like I did
when I tried original recipe for Loco
Mike encourages will to use his
connection to the upside down to let
them track what they're now calling the
shadow monster like a spy no a super
spot spying on the shadow monster well
except when they also call it the mine
flier
the hell is that it's a monster from an
unknown dimension my god none of this is
real this is a kids game 11 visits her
mom and aunt but can't get Terry to
speak with her eventually she's able to
connect to some of her mother's memories
using the television stop talking yeah
I'm the narrator that's my job anyway
eleven interest Terry's mind and sees
her own birth and Terry breaking into
Hawkins lab in an unsuccessful attempt
to free her but Terry was captured by
dr. Brenner whose team wiped her mind
using electroshock treatment you know
I'm starting to think this dr. Brenner
was not a very nice guy on a journey of
their own Nancy and Jonathan find Murray
and tell him about barb like all
responsible cranks he believes them
right away
I believe you but that's not the problem
you don't need me to believe you need
them to believe they decide to make this
story less fantastical so it's more
likely to be accepted by the public
everyone will not their heads and say
see ha I know it Nancy and Jonathan
spend the night at Marie's as they make
watered-down copies of their Hawkins lab
tape to mail around to the press but
nothing happens you guys come on oh yeah
okay something happens Jonathan that was
the pullout about as uncomfortable as
your interest in the sex lives of
high-school students at the lab dr.
Owens finds that the upside down is
leaking into our world by analyzing
samples of Hawkins soil you know just
the basics Euler graph it's a simple
enough procedure he postulates that
everything from the upside down is
connected via a hive mind will uses his
powers to locate hopper whom they
venture into the upside down to rescue
right while they search the team from
Hawkins lab find hopper and free him by
burning more tendrils this also hurts
will who's still connected to the hive
mind
so they take him back to the lab because
this sounds like a lab kind of problem
meanwhile is still growing dart escapes
Dustin's house so he goes on the hunt
along with Steve dr. Owen shows Hopper
the gate to the upside down which has
grown considerably they want to burn it
but are afraid that would kill will who
eventually wakes up but has no memories
of the past year not even Bob who could
forget Bob Steve and his crew managed to
Laura and dart but he is a
with other adolescent dimma Gorgons or
demo dogs for short Emma dogs like Emma
Gorgon and dog so you put them together
it sounds pretty badass how is this
important right now
they corner the kids in a discarded
School Bus before apparently being
called away they're going somewhere at
Hawkins lab will agrees to help lab
workers map the upside down but this is
actually reverse double-bluffed trap
laid by the shadow monster working
through will he thinks he's so smart it
made me do it
the soldiers are killed by dart and his
fellow demagogues meanwhile through her
mother's memories xi realizes that there
were other kids being held with her in
the lab in the series most divisive and
controversial episode to date xi uses
her powers to track one of them Cali
to a rundown industrial area in Chicago
Cali who has 0:08 on her wrists also has
a power she can create powerful
illusions in people's minds
she teaches xi to channel her powers by
focusing on her rage which is not Yoda's
method but still seems effective kali
and her collective of eighty stereotypes
like to track down and get revenge on
former hawkins lab staffers including
this guy ray Carroll who helped torture
Elevens mom when they find him ray tells
them that dr. Brenner is still alive
also xi sees a photo of him and his
family and starts to have second
thoughts about doing murder xi uses her
powers to stop the k team from hurting
ray sensing that mike and hopper are in
danger xi quit sir Callie's Angels
spin-off and returns to Hawkins to save
them meanwhile back in the series
stranger things
everyone's reunited at the lab but it's
been overrun with dimma dogs
Bob leaves the group to flip the power
back on because Jurassic Park doesn't
come out for nine more years and he
clearly doesn't know how dangerous this
is
[Music]
so he's dead everyone else gets away it
hides at the buyers house we stay here
and we wait for him
we'll still under the control of the
shadow monster aka the mind flayer aka
the big spider thing uses Morse code to
communicate the message closed gate
these are some resourceful kids the demo
dogs figure out where they're hiding but
11 shows up just in time to fend them
off 11 belief she has the power to close
the gate for good I can do it so she and
hopper return to the lab once they
arrive hopper and 11 find a severely
injured doctor Owens who sort of tacitly
agrees to help her lead a more normal
life if they all survive 1111 Owens
Billy shows up at the buyers place
looking for max and picks a fight with
Steve you see kids he's a bully because
his dad bullies him yes sir it's a
vicious cycle anyway max knocks him out
with a sedative and the kids steal his
car their plan is to burn the
underground tunnels and distract the
dimma dogs they encounter dart once more
but Dustin manages to call them enough
to allow their escape meanwhile Joyce
Jonathan and Nancy expose will to
extreme heat expelling the mind flare
from his body
eleven and hopper make it to the gate
and she uses her powers to close it oh
she went full Dark Phoenix you've never
go full Dark Phoenix this kills all the
remaining demo Gorgons demo Dogg's demo
tapes democracy demo just about
everything a month later Nancy and
Jonathan's tape is picked up by the
National Press so Hawkins lab is shut
down and barb is given a funeral Owens
has forged a birth certificate for
eleven formally renaming her Jane and
indicating that she's hoppers daughter
okay but he's definitely still going to
kill everyone on weyland-yutani behalf
eventually I'm on to this guy all the
kids including 11 / Jane attend the
school's annual snowball Max and Lucas
like each other
Nancy throws the lonely Dustin a pity
dance mic and 11 pick up where they left
off and everything seems nice until we
see in the upside down that the mind
flare is still alive at thirsty for more
and that's it all you need to know about
stranger things before watching the
third season in fact probably a lot more
than you need to know about stranger
things before watching the third season
psychic girl helps some suburban kids
fight monsters from an alternate
dimension you know actually that
would've been almost as good as this
summer
okay consider that a cram it for this
cram it now go catch up on some homework
you've nutty kids this episode was
sponsored by rocket leagues radical
summer a nine week in-game event
celebrating all things 80s including
free items new modes and premium DLC
play now through August 12th